# USMobileProject

## Overview
USMobileProject is a Spring Boot application that manages mobile user data, including cycles and daily usage information. It provides RESTful APIs for user management, cycle tracking, and daily usage monitoring.

## Features
- User Management
- Cycle Tracking
- Daily Usage Monitoring
- Bulk Data Generation for testing and development


## Setup
1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/denrozhkov/usmobile.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```
   cd USMobileProject
   ```

3. Build the project:
   ```
   ./gradlew build
   ```

4. Set up your MongoDB connection in `application.properties`:
   ```
   spring.data.mongodb.uri=mongodb+srv://dbWriter:${ATLAS_DBWRITER_PASS}@atlascluster.0wcjw.mongodb.net/us-mobile?retryWrites=true&w=majority
   ```

5. Run the application:
   ```
   ./gradlew bootRun
   ```

## API Endpoints
- User Management:
  - GET `/api/users/{id}`: Get user by ID
  - POST `/api/users`: Create a new user
  - PUT `/api/users/{id}`: Update user information
  - DELETE `/api/users/{id}`: Delete a user

- Cycle Management:
  - GET `/api/cycles`: Get cycle history for a user

- Daily Usage:
  - GET `/api/daily-usage`: Get daily usage for the current cycle
  
  There are other endpoints for bulk data generation but they are intended for one time use only. You don't need to call those APIs, the database is already prepopulated.

## Testing
The project includes both unit tests and integration tests. Integration tests use Testcontainers to spin up a MongoDB instance.

To run all tests:
```
./gradlew test
```

## Database Schema

- Users Collection

   - id: ObjectId - Primary key, auto-generated by MongoDB
   - firstName: String - First name of the customer
   - lastName: String - Last name of the customer
   - email: String - Email of the customer
   - password: String - password

- Cycles Collection

   - id: ObjectId - Primary key, auto-generated by MongoDB
   - mdn: String - The phone number of a customer (indexed)
   - startDate: Date - The start date of a billing cycle
   - endDate: Date - The end date of a billing cycle
   - userId: ObjectId - Foreign key to the id of the user collection (indexed)

- DailyUsage Collection

   - id: ObjectId - Primary key, auto-generated by MongoDB
   - mdn: String - The phone number associated with the usage (indexed)
   - userId: ObjectId - The customer who owns this phone number, foreign key to user collection (indexed)
   - usageDate: Date - Example: ISODate("2023-10-25T00:00:00.000-0400")
   - usedInMb: Number - The usage of that day from 00:00:00 to 23:59:59 in the local timezone

Cycles and DailyUsage collections have indices on userId and mdn fields for faster data access. 
The database is MongoDB Atlas. Connection string for read only access: 
```
mongodb+srv://dbReader:dbReader4231@atlascluster.0wcjw.mongodb.net/
```

## Data Generation
The project includes utilities to generate test data:
- `UserService.generateUsers(int numberOfUsers)`: Generates user data. 
- `CycleService.generateCycles()`: Generates cycle data for users
- `DailyUsageService.generateDailyUsage()`: Generates daily usage data

There are currenly 50K users in the DB, 7-8 billing cycles per user and about 40 days of daily usage data. These numbers are selected to fit into data limit of MongoDB Atlas free tier (512Mb of storage)

## Docker

You may want to run the application using docker image. Run
```
   docker pull denisrozhkov/usmobileproject
```
```
   docker run -d -p 8080:8080 denisrozhkov/usmobileproject:latest
```
After that you can use curl for API requests to the localhost. Sample requests:

```
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/api/users/66beae1f3103b44d8ff99229 -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```
```
curl -X GET 'http://localhost:8080/api/cycles/history?userId=66beae1f3103b44d8ff99229&mdn=5522601984' -H 'Accept: application/json'
```
```
curl -X GET 'http://localhost:8080/api/daily-usage?userId=66beae1f3103b44d8ff9922b&mdn=5996952247' -H 'Accept: application/json'
```
```
curl -X PUT http://localhost:8080/api/users/66beae1f3103b44d8ff99229 -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"firstName": "Rudy", "lastName": "Kost", "email":"latrisha.padberg@gmail.com"}'
```

## Web deployment

The app is also deployed on EC2 instance and you can make API requests to it without any setup. Sample command:
```
curl -X GET 'http://18.219.218.32:8080/api/daily-usage?userId=66beae1f3103b44d8ff9922b&mdn=5996952247' -H 'Accept: application/json'
```
or just type

http://18.219.218.32:8080/api/daily-usage?userId=66beae1f3103b44d8ff9922b&mdn=5996952247

in your browser

## Error Handling
The application implements error handling and returns appropriate HTTP status codes and error messages for different scenarios.

## Logging
Logging is implemented throughout the application using SLF4J. Check the console output or configured log files for application logs.

## Future improvements and suggestions

- User Password Security:

   - Currently, user passwords are stored in plain text within the main Users collection (as per project requirements). This practice is highly discouraged for any production system.
   - Recommendation: Encrypt passwords and store them in a separate table or system, linked to the Users collection via userId. This approach will also simplify the data model, eliminating the need to filter out the password field in the model/mapper.

- User Email Validation:
   - Implement a check for existing email addresses during new user creation to prevent duplicate accounts.

- Daily Usage Data Management:

   - Current System: Daily usage data is updated every 15 minutes, which may cause performance issues with GET requests.
   - Proposed Solution: Separate historical and current (today's) data into two tables:
      Create a mechanism to transfer data from the current table to the historical table.
      Modify GET requests to combine data from both collections.

   Benefits: This approach would improve query performance and data management efficiency.


Project Link: [https://github.com/denrozhkov/usmobile](https://github.com/denrozhkov/usmobile)